Title: Mini-ISES identifies promising carbafructopyranose-based salens for asymmetric catalysis: Tuning ligand shape via the anomeric effect
Author: 
Date: Fri, 10 Jul 2015 20:50:52 +0200
Link: http://advances.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/short/1/6/e1500066?rss=1

This study introduces new methods of screening for and tuning chiral space and 
in so doing identifies a promising set of chiral ligands for asymmetric 
synthesis. The carbafructopyranosyl-1,2-diamine(s) and salens constructed 
therefrom are particularly compelling. It is shown that by removing the native 
anomeric effect in this ligand family, one can tune chiral ligand shape and 
improve chiral bias. This concept is demonstrated by a combination of (i) x-ray
crystallographic structure determination, (ii) assessment of catalytic 
performance, and (iii) consideration of the anomeric effect and its underlying 
dipolar basis. The title ligands were identified by a new mini version of the 
in situ enzymatic screening (ISES) procedure through which catalyst-ligand 
combinations are screened in parallel, and information on relative rate and 
enantioselectivity is obtained in real time, without the need to quench 
reactions or draw aliquots. Mini-ISES brings the technique into the nanomole 
regime (200 to 350 nmol catalyst/20 μl organic volume) commensurate with 
emerging trends in reaction development/process chemistry. The best-performing 
β-d-carbafructopyranosyl-1,2-diamine–derived salen ligand discovered here 
outperforms the best known organometallic and enzymatic catalysts for the 
hydrolytic kinetic resolution of 3-phenylpropylene oxide, one of several 
substrates examined for which the ligand is "matched." This ligand scaffold 
defines a new swath of chiral space, and anomeric effect tunability defines a 
new concept in shaping that chiral space. Both this ligand set and the anomeric
shape-tuning concept are expected to find broad application, given the value of
chiral 1,2-diamines and salens constructed from these in asymmetric catalysis.
