Title: Photobiocatalysis: The Power of Combining Photocatalysis and Enzymes
Author: 
Date: Tue, 26 May 2015 23:51:30 +0200
Link: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/resolve/doi?DOI=10.1002%2Fchem.201406437

Abstract

Photobiocatalysts are constituted by a semiconductor with or without a light 
harvester that activates an enzyme. A logical source of inspiration for the 
development of photobiocatalysts has been natural photosynthetic centers. In 
photobiocatalysis, the coupling of the semiconductor and the enzyme frequently 
requires a natural cofactor and a relay transferring charge carriers from the 
semiconductor. The most widely studied photobiocatalysts so far make use of 
conduction band electrons of excited semiconductors to promote enzymatic 
reductions mediated by NAD^+/NADH and an electron relay. The present review 
presents the state of the art in the field and has been organized based on the 
semiconductor and the reaction type including oxidations, hydrogen generation, 
and CO[2] reduction. The possibility of direct enzyme activation by the 
semiconductor and the influence of the nature of mediator are also discussed as
well as the use of mimics of the enzyme active center in combination with the 
semiconductor. The final section summarizes the state of the art of 
photobiocatalysis and comments on our view on future developments of the field.
[image 2][1]

Light the way to biocatalysis! The present review presents the state of the art
in the field of photobiocatalysis and has been organized based on the 
semiconductor and the reaction type including oxidations, hydrogen generation, 
and CO[2] reduction. The possibility of direct enzyme activation by the 
semiconductor and the influence of the nature of the mediator are also 
discussed (see scheme).

Links: 
[1]: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1002/chem.201406437/asset/image_m/mcontent.gif?v=1&s=6b88319785dbad83043142d1d333dfa866679cc3 (link)
[2]: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1002/chem.201406437/asset/image_n/ncontent.gif?v=1&s=6375e722e74f72e666e694355f6d9751048cf387 (image)
