Title: What Makes a Strong Organic Electron Donor (or Acceptor)?
Author: 
Date: Mon, 27 Apr 2015 16:21:06 +0200
Link: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/resolve/doi?DOI=10.1002%2Fchem.201406597

Abstract

Organic electron donors are of importance for a number of applications. 
However, the factors that are essential for a directed design of compounds with
desired reduction power are not clear. Here, we analyze these factors in 
detail. The intrinsic reduction power, which neglects the environment, has to 
be separated from extrinsic (e.g., solvent) effects. This power could be 
quantified by the gas-phase ionization energy. The experimentally obtained 
redox potentials in solution and the calculated ionization energies in a 
solvent (modeled with the conductor-like screening model (COSMO)) include both 
intrinsic and extrinsic factors. An increase in the conjugated Ï€-system of 
organic electron donors leads to an increase in the intrinsic reduction power, 
but also decreases the solvent stabilization. Hence, intrinsic and extrinsic 
effects compete against each other; generally the extrinsic effects dominate. 
We suggest a simple relationship between the redox potential in solution and 
the gas-phase ionization energy and the volume of an organic electron donor. We
finally arrive at formulas that allow for an estimate of the (gas-phase) 
ionization energy of an electron donor or the (gas-phase) electron affinity of 
an electron acceptor from the measured redox potentials in solution. The 
formulas could be used for neutral organic molecules with no or only small 
static dipole moment and relatively uniform charge distribution after 
oxidation/reduction.
[image 2: Thumbnail image of graphical abstract][2]

Size matters: A relationship between the gas-phase ionization energy and the 
experienced redox potential in solution is derived. The results highlight the 
importance of molecular volume in determining the reduction potential in 
solution (see figure).

Links: 
[1]: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1002/chem.201406597/asset/image_m/mcontent.gif?v=1&s=74a47190e7208faba0725a3e0ec36749ee5cce9d (link)
[2]: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1002/chem.201406597/asset/image_n/ncontent.gif?v=1&s=d6a60dd2507dcd10f024ec53c4af9f727f4729d4 (image)
